Align log sdk naming with api (#2768)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/logs/api.md

The Events and Logs API consist of these main classes:

* LoggerProvider is the entry point of the API. It provides access to Loggers.

> * Logger is the class responsible for creating Events and Logs using LogRecords.

Reviewer: Can "Events" and "Logs" link to the actual definition?

Reviewer 2: `using LogRecords` or `as LogRecords`?

Author: @reyang I've linked to what are currently the best anchors for understanding events vs. logs. Ideally the definitions would be on the same page so readers can easily distinguish between the two. We should update the [glossary](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/glossary.md#logs) and/or the [data model](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/data-model.md) to include better definitions.

The Logger MUST provide functions to:

> #### Emit Event

Author: This style of describing an interface's operations is consistent with the log SDK as well as the other signals. It also allows for linking the SDK to specific operations.

> #### Emit Event

Reviewer: Isn't this a special case of "logRecord" (which is explained later)? Why do we need a specialized API given there is already a generic API? (any usability, perf, etc. reason?)

Author: I believe that two operations was implied in the previous version of this document. I've only broken out the two operations to make it easier to link to the sections with anchors.

The discussion of having a specialized API was brought up extensively in the log SIG and in the [log/event API otep](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/pull/202). The TL;DR is that events are a special case of a log record that require a name (and domain). The current plan is to [include name and domain as attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/semantic_conventions/events.md) on log records with keys `event.name` and `event.domain`. The specialized API significantly improves the UX of creating events by hiding this detail from instrumentation authors.

Emit a `LogRecord` representing an Event to the processing pipeline.

This function MAY be named `logEvent`.

**Parameters:**

> * `name` - the Event name. This argument MUST be recorded as an attribute with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `name` - the Event name. This argument MUST be recorded as a LogRecord attribute with
```

**Parameters:**

* `logRecord` - the [LogRecord](#logrecord).

## LogRecord

The API emits [Events](#emit-event) and [LogRecords](#emit-logrecord) using
the `LogRecord` [data model](data-model.md).

A function receiving this as an argument MUST be able to set the following
fields:

- [Timestamp](./data-model.md#field-timestamp)
- [Observed Timestamp](./data-model.md#field-observedtimestamp)
- [Trace Context](./data-model.md#trace-context-fields)
- [Severity Number](./data-model.md#field-severitynumber)
- [Severity Text](./data-model.md#field-severitytext)
- [Body](./data-model.md#field-body)
- [Attributes](./data-model.md#field-attributes)

## Usage

### How to Create Log4J Style Appender

An Appender implementation can be used to allow emitting `LogRecords` via
OpenTelemetry [LogRecordExporters](sdk.md#logrecordexporter). This approach is
typically used for applications which are fine with changing the log transport
and is [one of the supported](README.md#direct-to-collector) log collection
approaches.

The Appender implementation will typically acquire a [Logger](#logger) from the
global [LoggerProvider](#loggerprovider) at startup time, then

> call [Emit LogRecord](#emit-logrecord) for `LogRecords` received from the

Reviewer 3: Applications don't create our `LogRecord`, so I think it is better:
```suggestion
call [Emit LogRecord](#emit-logrecord) for logs received from the
```

application.

For languages with implicit Context, the Appender may call Context API to get
the currently [active Span](../trace/api.md#context-interaction) and populate
`TraceContext` fields of the `LogRecord` before emitting it. The log
library may also have an alternate way to inject the context into `LogRecords`
(e.g. MDC in Log4j).

> TODO: update image to reflect current naming conventions

Author: @tigrannajaryan do you links to the original diagram files used to generate these images?

Reviewer 3: Yes, I do. DM me your email on Slack and I will share the diagram with you.

The Logger MUST provide functions to:

#### Emit Event

Emit a `LogRecord` representing an Event to the processing pipeline.

This function MAY be named `logEvent`.

**Parameters:**

* `name` - the Event name. This argument MUST be recorded as a `LogRecord`
  attribute with the key `event.name`. Care MUST be taken by the implementation
  to not override or delete this attribute while the Event is emitted to
  preserve its identity.
* `logRecord` - the [LogRecord](#logrecord) representing the Event.

Events require the `event.domain` attribute. The API MUST not allow creating an

> Event if the Logger instance doesn't have `event.domain` scope attribute.

Reviewer 4: @jack-berg @scheler 

> Events require the `event.domain` attribute. The API MUST not allow creating an
Event if the Logger instance doesn't have `event.domain` scope attribute.

Can you clarify for me what to do in the case of missing `event.domain` to the EmitEvent call? Is it a no-op or a throw? Do I generate a log to alert the user?

Also, is it valid if `name` is passed as `null` or empty?

Reviewer 5: @CodeBlanch both `domain` and `name` are required for an `Event` and also cannot be empty or null.  So EmitEvent call should throw an error if `event.domain` attribute is missing or is null/empty.  Same with `name` - if it is null or empty, EmitEvent should return failure or throw an error.

the currently [active Span](../trace/api.md#context-interaction) and populate
`TraceContext` fields of the `LogRecord` before emitting it. The log
library may also have an alternate way to inject the context into `LogRecords`
(e.g. MDC in Log4j).

![Appender](img/appender.png)

This same approach can be also used for example for:

- Python logging library by creating a Handler.
- Go zap logging library by implementing the Core interface. Note that since
  there is no implicit Context in Go it is not possible to get and use the
  active Span.

Appenders can be created in OpenTelemetry language libraries by OpenTelemetry
maintainers, or by 3rd parties for any logging library that supports a similar
extension mechanism. This specification recommends each OpenTelemetry language
library to include out-of-the-box Appender implementation for at least one
popular logging library.

### Implicit Context Injection

When Context is implicitly available (e.g. in Java) it may be fetched by the log
library extension synchronously for every `LogRecord` by calling the
OpenTelemetry Context API and injecting the span context fields into the

> `LogRecord` before emitting it.

Reviewer 5: This text is repeated in the previous section as well - is there a way to keep only one of them? Also, the previous section uses the term `TraceContext` and here we use `span context`, you may want to use the same term for the sake of consistency.

Author: Reading these sections (Implicit / Explicit Context Injection) closer, I'm not sure they're necessary at this point.

The implicit context injection (sort of) superseded by the ability to indicate whether or not trace context should be automatically included at the logger level via the [include_trace_context](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blame/main/specification/logs/api.md#L92) argument.

The explicit context injection is arguably obsolete since you can explicitly set trace context on [LogRecords](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/2768/files#diff-e2981506e39a9bc2c9bcfcf188c5a80542e8b6fd115cf9daf98ba8a1cbda80beR178).

@tigrannajaryan WDYT? Is it safe to remove these sections?

Reviewer 3: Perhaps replace this by a line item that says if [include_trace_context](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blame/main/specification/logs/api.md#L92) argument is supported?

Some log libraries have mechanisms specifically tailored for injecting
contextual information into log records. An example of such a mechanism is Log4j
MDC. When available such mechanisms may be the preferable place to fetch the

> span context and inject it into the log records, since it usually allows

Reviewer 5: Same here - TraceContext vs span context.
